react tutorial 

https://courses.chaicode.com/learn


learn react after only mastering js 

facebook have ghost message problem(phantom problem) -- no consistency in UI 

react sync the JS and DOM , state and UI 

react is library 

framework == military  --> rules are strict 
library == cool dude 

UI manipulation, JSX
component resusability 
props 
hooks

react dont have build in router -- download react-router-dom 
state management, redux react, redux toolkit, zustand, context API 
class based component  -- legacy code 
BAAS Apps -- social media clone, <backend as a service>
appwrite is a baas


after react (no SEO, browser render of JS, no routing)
these framework -- nextJS, gatsby , remix, freeAPI.app(chai and code)


NOTES  



vite application / parcel are bundlers --  npm create vite@latest -- quite fast --- brought on file but didnt install , do npm i  -- npm run dev(dev is script name in package.json)


CRA(create-react-app) vs vite

npx create-react-app -- it is little bit bulky  -- npx create-react-app basicrect  --- OG , installed it  -- npm run start 


react -- react-dom(talk to my dom in my browser), react-native(talk to mobile), 3D application to here


build command are used to deploy these on vercel or netify 

react app is called spa -- single page applcation 

in jsx you can return only one element, use parent and child relation or <> </> use this 

in vite, you should use jsx for return like thing and function name should be in capital even having filename in capital is good practice 

in vite, there is manual script and in cra there is custom script

if you give hello {usename} --- will take username from inside that function 

use state -- first one is variable .. second one is method 

batching -- to avoid it use callbacks 

react fiber architecture  -- read docs

reconcilliation -- read docs

tailwind css

we have to install all npm and all lib that we need in root dir where package.json is 

 

 -------- 



 react is the most used and famous js library 


 --- react js with the help of cdn in html css and js code
 dom 

var root = document.querySelector('#root')
var h1= document.createElement('h1')
h1.innerHTML = 'hello from JS' 
root.appendChild(h1)


web app --- react dom and react library 


why react work on virutal DOM 

The real DOM is not used directly for updates in React due to several reasons:

Performance: The real DOM is slow to update. Each change to the DOM can cause the browser to re-render the entire page, which is 
computationally expensive and can lead to performance bottlenecks.

Inefficiency: Direct manipulation of the real DOM can be inefficient, especially when dealing with frequent updates. 
Each change triggers a reflow and repaint, which can degrade performance.

Complexity: Managing the state and updates directly on the real DOM can be complex and error-prone. 
The virtual DOM abstracts this complexity, making it easier to reason about state changes and updates.

Batching: The virtual DOM allows React to batch updates and apply them in a single operation, reducing the number of reflows and repaints.

Virtual DOM: React creates an in-memory representation of the real DOM called the virtual DOM. This is a lightweight copy of the actual DOM.

Efficient Updates: When the state of a component changes, React updates the virtual DOM first. It then compares the virtual DOM with 
a snapshot of the previous virtual DOM (a process called "diffing").

Minimal Changes: After identifying the differences, React calculates the most efficient way to update the real DOM. 
This minimizes the number of changes needed, which improves performance.

Batch Updates: React batches multiple updates together to reduce the number of re-renders, further enhancing performance.

-----
cdn 

React.createElement('h1', null(property), "hello from React" )

var parent = React.querySelector('#parent')

var root = ReactDOM.createRoot(parent)

root.render(h1)


-----


npm create react-app 

npm create vite

vite is a bundler that helps us to make react js folder

JSX -- Javascript XML -- combination of JS and HTML 


//rafce


strict mode come in use during production time 


hooks -- are special type of function that provide powerful feature in react like state management 
